So now let's look at
this portfolio checklist.
Now I really want you all to go,
especially for
those who are looking to push thing
live to the web and back in engineer.
You two over here,
there are some things in here,
they're very important to you, right?
So we have the most obvious,
the first one where we're talking about,
I'm using clean code, your code.
When I say clean code,
what I am referring to,
particularly if you're
using a framework or
something is your code needs to be
maintainable, readable, scalable.
What that means is that when I talk about,
when I look at your code,
I'm able to buy the naming conventions to
have some idea of what that code can do.
Maintainable you're not having all your
code, you're not having a 500 line file,
of course it does four or
five different things.
This file has not the code for
it to do one thing and
one thing well and
to be brought into another place.
Be able to be utilized elsewhere in
other parts of your code base, right?
A maintainable, so
when I say about maintainable, alrl ight,
let's say it's backward.
It needs to be backwards compatible or
it needs to change to some way like that.
You've written it in a format to
where if I add a console log or
make a change somewhere, it's not gonna
break your entire code piece, right?
So think of it as conceptualize it in the
format of how React components are done,
but everywhere that ideology that
react has with the components was
actually my first time seeing it
was not in React but was in Rails.
They believed a lot of real good
rails devs they believe that
you're code should be small your
code do you wanna be in one file.
They were like, shouldn't you be more than
one program to help me shouldn't be more
than like 30 lines of code in that file
and that coach only do one thing well, and
then you make those files or
files or CO work together.
Think of this function, does one thing
as all the things supposed to do.
Now I can make it do multiple
versions of one thing, but
it still does this one thing
well right versus a 9 I've
seen nightmare codebases where
like is one JavaScript file and
it's 2000 lines of code and you're like.
Wow, does this person not love themself?
[LAUGH]
And now I have to work days, and so
I don't love myself so here we are,
two people that need therapy.
[LAUGH] Yeah, so we helped you.
>> So, kinda segregation of concerns,
yes, separation of concerns.
[INAUDIBLE] log in,
might have one little piece just was
logging into the Program or
>> one thing doing just a little bit of
logic another part so if it's login
let's say for instance you're off and
login section your office section is for
logging in.
And you have you want to use multiple
different ways logging analysts so
you wanna use apple you
wanna use Google and
Facebook I guess those
are big three right?
People use Apple, Google Facebook for
authentication, right?
So you have that file, there handles
login, but you also handles those
three they haven't clearly named or
showcase which one it uses.
Here's apple off here is
Google off here is FB off and
which parts of authentication
trailed is that it's focusing on and
you're just using those functions as
needed right but that one file does that.
So that's what I mean by clean,
clean code, right?
Yes, Ma'am.
>> Could you speak about
the scalable piece of that?
>> Yeah, all right.
So scalable essentially what I mean by
that is you're able to make you able to
make the work scale,
you're able to make the,
you've written your code in a manner
that where you can expand it,
make it larger, like say
>> He's off once again in his piece of off
code right let's say there is a new
form of authentication he wants to add.
Let's say he wants to add WhatsApp for
to FA or or just or
another two FA authentication format for
his authentication.
Now we can scale it, we can extend that
to add this to f a factor for it to sin,
a sin it takes if a user chooses to send
a text message for this piece of code.
Here we go right here, but
that's still in its authentication.
But it's two factor like it's a new,
it's a new feature that he's
added within this code, right?
So that's what we were referring
to making it scalable.
Using version control, now,
when it comes to learning how to code,
people use GitHub to just
to store their stuff.
When it comes to learning how
to code professionally to a job,
I want you to think of using
version control as a magnifier and
amplifier for your career.
All right.
So what I'm saying is this is that one,
you should find someone to collaborate
with anyone that you'd be on your level
it'd be a little bit higher does matter
but have someone to collaborate with.
Two, what you should be doing is when
you're doing your version control,
you're your primary branch,
anything new you're building.
You're going to check out a new branch and
you're going to build your
feature on that branch Then when
you push that feature branch up and
you're done with that feature,
you're going to have the person that
you're collaborating with do a PR and
They're going to review your code And
then only after they look at that code and
say that is good.
You're going to put that back into your
feature branch I mean to your primary
branch.
Now I know you're thinking that is
a lot of work for free for you know for
free when I'm not doing us on a project
and I'm that I'm not going to pay it off.
See, that's exactly the point.
You want to show that to an employer that
you already have these practices in place,
right?
And you don't have to do
that on every project.
You can do it only on your portfolio
right where that's where they're gonna be
looking at and viewing the most and
you wanna that's where you wanna show all
of this height of like your
work you want to show this.
Project border how I plan this portfolio
you wanna show this form of how I've
done this then the theory,
you wanna show these these PR branches and
all of this like collaboration,
so that way when you say it.
They can see it and, you know,
they you know it, that connection.
This person did see on their resume,
they collaborated on this and
they've done a lot of PR and
things of this nature.
And they pull tickets and created issues.
I'm like, wow, you did,
this person did all this, okay.
So this person actually knows how to
code and as a unit with other people.
I like that, that's nice.
I wanna hire this person at least
talk to this person, right?
That's what you want, right?
So, yes.
>> So I'm kind of curious.
Are there any projects that are, like,
it is worse to do them badly than
not at all if you don't check off
all these boxes on, like, good Git.
Good habits or this project is like
a little bit messy in the code base.
>> I don't believe I believe that
there are projects that are meant for
different things right.
One thing that you see all the time
is a JavaScript calculator JavaScript
calculators teach you good crud,
good fundamentals on JavaScript.
That's what it's focused on.
It is not a project that is designed
to be on your portfolio, though.
That is a skill builder project, right?
Not a portfolio project.
What I would consider a portfolio
project is like making a miniature.
Like,you know, social network or
making a small like Markdown
editor of some sort, right?
Like something like that that people can
use and you can push to the web and people
can use, but I don't view I don't believe
there is such thing as like projects that
are worse than doing it unless you use or
project and inappropriately It right like
me putting a JavaScript calculator on my
portfolio is a portfolio project that's
inappropriate format of using that project
because that project is a skill builder.
Everybody is dealing with one
of those at this timeframe.
Just you know, day and age.
It's not there's only so much you so
many different ways you can do a,
you know, JavaScript calculator
these days, right But
let's say on your portfolio on a project
because we're talking about node and
like, you know, we're doing front end and
back end, and a cloud engineer.
So you're using Azure, you've pushed
a chat bot to your to your website and
you have so you have a chat app on your on
your website, you know, using psycho node.
And you know Azure or AWS or
ledger gave it a handle on that data so
now that is a project that
you can look small but
you can actually talk about on
your portfolio because You have
its push live,
it's interacting directly with users,
and you're showcasing like
solving a problem, right?
I used to have a chatbot on my first
project using Socket.iloin node
because I wanted to be able
to talk directly to people
that went to my portfolio
when I was like 2015, 2016.
I want to talk to them directly.
If they had questions.
And I knew that if someone saw a chat
bot bubble that clicked that bubble and
if they wanted,
they would see if it would work.
And then I'm like, Hey, how are you doing?
I'm actually doing this.
I would even take pictures and
upload it where I was at at
the time just to show people.
so that you know this actually works
right so like that is where you know
that's where the you know the thinking
of projects comes into play